Add new gall guide. (#1249)
urbit/urbit.org: content/docs/userspace/gall-guide/8-subscriptions.md

in the path. First we check it's `/foo/bar/...something...`, and then we check
what the "something" is in another wutlus expression and handle it
appropriately. In this case, it could be `/foo/bar`, `/foo/bar/abc/def`, or
`/foo/bar/blah`. You could of course also have "wildcard" elements here too, so
there's not really a limit to the complexity of your subscription paths, or the
data that might be encoded therein.

Permissions can be checked as described in the previous lesson, comparing the
source `@p` of the request in `src.bowl` to `our.bowl` or any other logic you
find appropriate.

If a permission check fails, the path is not valid, or any other reason you want
to reject the subscription request, your agent can simply crash. The behavior
here is the same as with `on-poke` - Gall will send a `%watch-ack` card in
response, which is either an ack (positive acknowledgement) or a nack (negative
acknowledgement). The `(unit tang)` in the `%watch-ack` will be null if
processing succeeded, and non-null if it crashed, with a stack trace in the
`tang`. Like with `poke-ack`s, you don't need to explicitly send a

> `%watch-ack` - Gall will do it implicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`%watch-ack` - Gall will do it automatically.
```

To kick a subscriber, you just send a `%kick` `card`:

```hoon
[%give %kick ~[/some/path] `~sampel-palnet]
```

The `(list path)` specifies which subscription `path`s the ship should be kicked
from, and the `(unit ship)` specifies which ship to kick. The `(unit ship)` can also be null, like so:

```hoon
[%give %kick ~[/some/path] ~]
```

In this case, all subscribers to the specified `path`s will be kicked.

Note that `%kick`s are not exclusively sent by the agent itself - Gall itself
can also kick subscribers under certain network conditions. Because of this,
`%kick`s are not assumed to be intentional, and the usual behavior is for a
kicked agent to try and resubscribe. Therefore, if you want to disallow a
particular subscriber, your agent's `on-watch` arm should reject further
subscription requests from them - your agent should not just `%kick` them and
call it a day.

## Outgoing subscriptions

Now that we've covered incoming subscriptions, we'll look at the other side of
it: Subscribing to other agents. This is done by `%pass`ing the target agent a
`%watch` task in a `card`:

```hoon
[%pass /some/wire %agent [~some-ship %some-agent] %watch /some/path]
```

> If yor agent's subscription request is successful, updates will come in to your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your agent's subscription request is successful, updates will come in to your
```

successfully. If you wanted to apply some additional logic on receipt of the
`%watch-ack`, you'd typically first test the `wire`, then test whether it's a
`%watch-ack`, then test whether it's an ack or a nack and do whatever's
appropriate:

```hoon
++  on-agent
  |=  [=wire =sign:agent:gall]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  ?+    wire  (on-watch:def wire sign)
      [%expected %wire ~]
    ?+    -.sign  (on-watch:def wire sign)
        %watch-ack
      ?~  p.sign
        ...(do something if ack)...
      ...(do something if nack)...
  ......
```

The `on-agent` arm produces a `(quip card _this)`, so you can produce new
`card`s and update your agent's state, as appropriate.

One further thing to note with subscriptions is that you can subscribe multiple
times to the same `path` on the same ship and agent, as long as the `wire` is
unique. If the ship, agent, `path` and `wire` are all the same as an existing
subscription, Gall will not allow the request to be sent, and instead fail with
an error message fed into the `on-fail` arm of your agent.

## Receiving updates

Assuming the `%watch` succeeded, your agent will now begin receiving any

> `%fact`s the other agent publishes on the path to which you've subscribed. These

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`%fact`s the other agent publishes on the `path` to which you've subscribed. These
```

`%fact`s will also come in to your agent's `on-agent` arm in a `sign`, just like
the initial `%watch-ack`. The `%fact` `sign` will have the following format:

```hoon
[%fact =cage]
```

You would typically handle such `%fact`s in the following manner: Test the
`wire`, test whether the `sign` is a `%fact`, test the `mark` in the `cage`,

> extract the data from the `vase` in the `cage`, and apply your logic. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extract the data from the `vase` in the `cage`, and apply your logic. Again, route on `wire` before `sign` is one of the [Precepts](/docs/development/precepts#specifics). For example:
```

```hoon
++  on-agent
  |=  [=wire =sign:agent:gall]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  ?+    wire  (on-watch:def wire sign)
      [%expected %wire ~]
    ?+    -.sign  (on-watch:def wire sign)
        %fact
      ?+    p.cage.sign  (on-watch:def wire sign)
          %expected-mark
        =/  foo  !<(expected-type q.cage.sign)
        .....
  ......
```

Note that Gall will not allow `sign`s to come into `on-agent` unsolicited, so
you don't necessarily need to include permission logic in this arm.

The `on-agent` arm produces a `(quip card _this)`, so you can produce new
`card`s and update your agent's state, as appropriate.

## Getting kicked

> For whatever reason, the agent you're `%watch`ing might what to kick your agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For whatever reason, the agent you're `%watch`ing might want to kick your agent
```

state. After that, there are the head-tagged unions of accepted poke `action`s
and `update`s for subscribers.

#### `/mar/todo/action.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
|_  =action:todo
++  grab
  |%
  ++  noun  action:todo
  --
++  grow
  |%
  ++  noun  action
  --
++  grad  %noun
--
```

This is a very simple mark file for the `action` type.

#### `/mar/todo/update.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
|_  =update:todo
++  grab
  |%
  ++  noun  update:todo
  --
++  grow
  |%
  ++  noun  update
  --
++  grad  %noun
--
```

This is a very simple mark file for the `update` type.

### Publisher

#### `/app/todo.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
/+  default-agent, dbug
|%
+$  versioned-state
  $%  state-0
  ==
+$  state-0  [%0 =friends:todo =tasks:todo]
+$  card  card:agent:gall
--
%-  agent:dbug
=|  state-0
=*  state  -
^-  agent:gall
|_  =bowl:gall
+*  this  .
    def   ~(. (default-agent this %.n) bowl)
++  on-init
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  `this
++  on-save
  ^-  vase
  !>(state)
++  on-load
  |=  old-state=vase
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  =/  old  !<(versioned-state old-state)
  ?-  -.old
    %0  `this(state old)
  ==
++  on-poke
  |=  [=mark =vase]

>   |^  ^-  (quip card _this)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  |=  [=mark =vase]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  |^
```
it works either way but I believe this is more idiomatic

  ?>  =(src.bowl our.bowl)
  ?+    mark  (on-poke:def mark vase)
      %todo-action
    =^  cards  state
      (handle-poke !<(action:todo vase))
    [cards this]
  ==
  ++  handle-poke
    |=  =action:todo
    ^-  (quip card _state)
    ?-    -.action
        %add
      :_  state(tasks (~(put by tasks) now.bowl [name.action %.n]))
      :~  [%give %fact ~[/updates] %todo-update !>(`update:todo`[%add now.bowl name.action])]
      ==
    ::
        %del
      :_  state(tasks (~(del by tasks) id.action))
      :~  [%give %fact ~[/updates] %todo-update !>(`update:todo`action)]
      ==
    ::
        %toggle
      :_  state(tasks (~(jab by tasks) id.action |=(=task:todo task(done !done.task))))
      :~  [%give %fact ~[/updates] %todo-update !>(`update:todo`action)]
      ==
    ::
        %rename
      :_  state(tasks (~(jab by tasks) id.action |=(=task:todo task(name name.action))))
      :~  [%give %fact ~[/updates] %todo-update !>(`update:todo`action)]
      ==
    ::
        %allow
      `state(friends (~(put in friends) who.action))
    ::
        %kick
      :_  state(friends (~(del in friends) who.action))
      :~  [%give %kick ~[/updates] `who.action]
      ==
    ==

>   --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ++  handle-poke
    |=  =action:todo
    ^-  (quip card _state)
    ?-    -.action
        %add
      :_  state(tasks (~(put by tasks) now.bowl [name.action %.n]))
      :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`[%add now.bowl name.action])
          ==
      ==
    ::
         %del
      :_  state(tasks (~(del by tasks) id.action))
      :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`action)
          ==
      ==
    ::
        %toggle
      :_  %=  state
            tasks  %+  ~(jab by tasks)
                     id.action
                   |=(=task:todo task(done !done.task))
          ==
      :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`action)
          ==
      ==
    ::
        %rename
      :_  %=  state
            tasks  %+  ~(jab by tasks)
                     id.action
                   |=(=task:todo task(name name.action))
          ==
      :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`action)
          ==
      ==
        %allow
      `state(friends (~(put in friends) who.action))
    ::
        %kick
      :_  state(friends (~(del in friends) who.action))
      :~  [%give %kick ~[/updates] `who.action]
      ==
    ==
  --
```
just rewriting a few lines to stay under 80 character limit

`on-poke` arm, where it handles the various possible actions like `%add`ing a
task, `%toggle`ing its "done" state, `%rename`ing a task, and so on. It also has
a couple of `action`s for `%allow`ing and `%kick`ing subscribers.

Most of these cases both update the state of the agent, as well as producing
`%fact` cards to send out to subscribers with the new data.

You'll notice it only allows these pokes from the local ship, and enforces this
in `on-poke` with:

```hoon
?>  =(src.bowl our.bowl)
```

Let's look at `on-watch`:

```hoon
++  on-watch
  |=  =path
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  ?+    path  (on-watch:def path)
      [%updates ~]
    ?>  (~(has in friends) src.bowl)
    :_  this
    :~  [%give %fact ~ %todo-update !>(`update:todo`initial+tasks)]
    ==
  ==
```

When `on-watch` gets a subscription request, it checks whether the requesting
ship is in the `friends` set, and crashes if it is not. If they're in `friends`,
it produces a `%fact` card with a null `(list path)`, which means it goes only
to the new subscriber. This `%fact` contains the entire `tasks` map as it
currently exists, getting the new subscriber up to date.

### Subscriber

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### `/app/todo-watcher.hoon`

```

      %noun
    =/  action  !<(?([%sub @p] [%unsub @p]) vase)
    ?-    -.action
        %sub
      :_  this
      :~  [%pass /todos %agent [+.action %todo] %watch /updates]
      ==
        %unsub
      :_  this
      :~  [%pass /todos %agent [+.action %todo] %leave ~]
      ==
    ==
  ==
++  on-watch  on-watch:def
++  on-leave  on-leave:def
++  on-peek   on-peek:def
++  on-agent
  |=  [=wire =sign:agent:gall]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  ?+    wire  (on-agent:def wire sign)
      [%todos ~]
    ?+    -.sign  (on-agent:def wire sign)
        %watch-ack
      ?~  p.sign
        ((slog '%todo-watcher: Subscribe succeeded!' ~) `this)
      ((slog '%todo-watcher: Subscribe failed!' ~) `this)
    ::
        %kick
      %-  (slog '%todo-watcher: Got kick, resubscribing...' ~)
      :_  this
      :~  [%pass /todos %agent [src.bowl %todo] %watch /updates]
      ==
    ::
        %fact
      ?+    p.cage.sign  (on-agent:def wire sign)
          %todo-update
        ~&  !<(update:todo q.cage.sign)
        `this
      ==
    ==
  ==
++  on-arvo   on-arvo:def
++  on-fail   on-fail:def
--
```

This is the subscriber agent. Since it's just for demonstrative purposes, it has

> no state and just prints updates it receives. In practice it would keep the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no state and just prints the updates it receives. In practice it would keep the
```

```
[ %add
  id=170.141.184.505.349.082.779.030.192.959.445.270.528
  name='baz'
]
```

Let's try toggle its done state on `~zod`:

```
> :todo &todo-action [%toggle 170.141.184.505.349.082.779.030.192.959.445.270.528]
>=
```

`~nut` will again get the `%fact`:

```
[ %toggle
  id=170.141.184.505.349.082.779.030.192.959.445.270.528
]
```

Recall that incoming subscriptions are stored in `sup.bowl`, and outgoing
subscriptions are stored in `wex.bowl`. Let's have a look at the incoming
subscription on `~zod`:

```
>   [ path=/updates
  from=~nut
  duct=~[/gall/sys/req/~nut/todo /ames/bone/~nut/1 //ames]
]
> :todo +dbug [%incoming %ship ~nut]
>=
```

On `~nut`, let's look at the outgoing subscription:

```
>   [wire=/todos agnt=[~zod %todo] path=/updates ackd=%.y]
> :todo-watcher +dbug [%outgoing %ship ~zod]
>=
```

Now on `~zod`, let's try kicking `~nut` and removing it from our `friends` set:

```
> :todo &todo-action [%kick ~nut]
>=
```

On `~nut`, we'll see it got the `%kick`, tried resubscribing automatically, but
was rejected because `~nut` is no longer in `friends`:

```
%todo-watcher: Got kick, resubscribing...
%todo-watcher: Subscribe failed!
```

> 

Reviewer: Somewhere on this page you should link the reference on subscriptions `/docs/arvo/concepts/subscriptions`, maybe around here or at the top.

+++
title = "8. Subscriptions"
weight = 40
template = "doc.html"
+++

In this lesson we're going to look at subscriptions. Subscriptions are probably
the most complicated part of writing agents, so there's a fair bit to cover.
Before we get into the nitty-gritty details, we'll give a brief overview of
Gall's subscription mechanics.

The basic unit of subscriptions is the _path_. An agent will define a number of

> subscription paths in its `on-watch` arm, and other agents (local or remote) can

Reviewer 2: It's actually not strictly necessary to define supported subscription paths explicitly (in `+on-watch` or elsewhere). A subscription will succeed and stick around as long as the `+on-watch` doesn't crash.

Of course, it is nearly always appropriate to check and just crash on paths with shapes you don't recognize.

This comment also applies to the "incoming subscriptions" section below.

subscribe to those paths. The agent will then send out updates called `%fact`s
on one or more of its paths, and _all_ subscribers of those paths will receive
them. An agent cannot send out updates to specific subscribers, it can only
target its paths. An agent can kick subscribers from its paths, and subscribers
can unsubscribe from any paths.

The subscription paths an agent defines can be simple and fixed like
`/foo/bar/baz`. They can also be dynamic, taking data of a particular atom aura
encoded in certain elements of the path, and then decoding it to an atom of that
aura. These paths can therefore be as simple or complex as you need for your

> particular application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The subscription paths an agent defines can be simple and fixed like
`/foo/bar/baz`. They can also be dynamic, containing data of a particular atom aura
encoded in certain elements of the path. These paths can therefore be as simple or complex as you need for your particular application.
```

Encoding doesn't happen in or through the path, the path doesn't "take" any data, etc.

find appropriate.

If a permission check fails, the path is not valid, or any other reason you want
to reject the subscription request, your agent can simply crash. The behavior
here is the same as with `on-poke` - Gall will send a `%watch-ack` card in
response, which is either an ack (positive acknowledgement) or a nack (negative
acknowledgement). The `(unit tang)` in the `%watch-ack` will be null if
processing succeeded, and non-null if it crashed, with a stack trace in the
`tang`. Like with `poke-ack`s, you don't need to explicitly send a
`%watch-ack` - Gall will do it automatically.

As well as sending a `%watch-ack`, Gall will also record the subscription in the
`sup` field of the `bowl`, if it succeeded. Then, when you send updates out to
subscribers of the `path` in question, the new subscriber will begin receiving
them as well.

Updates to subscribers would usually be sent from other arms, but there's one
special case for `on-watch` which is very useful. Normally updates can only be
sent to all subscribers of a particular path - you can't target a specific
subscriber. There's one exception to this: In `on-watch`, when there's a new

> subscription, you can send a `%fact` back with a null `(list path)`, and it'll

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subscription, you can send a `%fact` back with an empty `(list path)`, and it'll
```

```hoon
[%give %kick ~[/some/path] ~]
```

In this case, all subscribers to the specified `path`s will be kicked.

Note that `%kick`s are not exclusively sent by the agent itself - Gall itself
can also kick subscribers under certain network conditions. Because of this,
`%kick`s are not assumed to be intentional, and the usual behavior is for a
kicked agent to try and resubscribe. Therefore, if you want to disallow a
particular subscriber, your agent's `on-watch` arm should reject further
subscription requests from them - your agent should not just `%kick` them and
call it a day.

## Outgoing subscriptions

Now that we've covered incoming subscriptions, we'll look at the other side of
it: Subscribing to other agents. This is done by `%pass`ing the target agent a
`%watch` task in a `card`:

```hoon
[%pass /some/wire %agent [~some-ship %some-agent] %watch /some/path]
```

If your agent's subscription request is successful, updates will come in to your
agent's `on-agent` arm on the `wire` specified (`/some/wire` in this example).
The `wire` can be anything you like - its purpose is for your agent to figure

> out which subscription the updates are for. The `[ship term]` pair specifies the

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this semantically matters, but suggestion:

```suggestion
out which subscription the updates came from. The `[ship term]` pair specifies the
```

    ?+    -.sign  (on-watch:def wire sign)
        %watch-ack
      ?~  p.sign
        ...(do something if ack)...
      ...(do something if nack)...
  ......
```

The `on-agent` arm produces a `(quip card _this)`, so you can produce new
`card`s and update your agent's state, as appropriate.

One further thing to note with subscriptions is that you can subscribe multiple
times to the same `path` on the same ship and agent, as long as the `wire` is
unique. If the ship, agent, `path` and `wire` are all the same as an existing
subscription, Gall will not allow the request to be sent, and instead fail with
an error message fed into the `on-fail` arm of your agent.

## Receiving updates

Assuming the `%watch` succeeded, your agent will now begin receiving any
`%fact`s the other agent publishes on the `path` to which you've subscribed. These
`%fact`s will also come in to your agent's `on-agent` arm in a `sign`, just like
the initial `%watch-ack`. The `%fact` `sign` will have the following format:

```hoon
[%fact =cage]
```

You would typically handle such `%fact`s in the following manner: Test the
`wire`, test whether the `sign` is a `%fact`, test the `mark` in the `cage`,

> extract the data from the `vase` in the `cage`, and apply your logic. Again, route on `wire` before `sign` is one of the [Precepts](/docs/development/precepts#specifics). For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
extract the data from the `vase` in the `cage`, and apply your logic. Again, routing on `wire` before `sign` is one of the [Precepts](/docs/development/precepts#specifics). For example:
```

be stored in the state of the publisher agent as the `tasks` type, a `(map id task)`, where a `task` is a `[=name done=?]`. The set of ships allowed to
subscribe will be stored in `friends`, a `(set @p)`, also in the publisher's
state. After that, there are the head-tagged unions of accepted poke `action`s
and `update`s for subscribers.

#### `/mar/todo/action.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
|_  =action:todo
++  grab
  |%
  ++  noun  action:todo
  --
++  grow
  |%
  ++  noun  action
  --
++  grad  %noun
--
```

This is a very simple mark file for the `action` type.

#### `/mar/todo/update.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
|_  =update:todo
++  grab
  |%
  ++  noun  update:todo
  --
++  grow
  |%
  ++  noun  update
  --
++  grad  %noun
--
```

This is a very simple mark file for the `update` type.

### Publisher

#### `/app/todo.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
/+  default-agent, dbug
|%
+$  versioned-state
  $%  state-0
  ==
+$  state-0  [%0 =friends:todo =tasks:todo]
+$  card  card:agent:gall
--
%-  agent:dbug
=|  state-0
=*  state  -
^-  agent:gall
|_  =bowl:gall
+*  this  .
    def   ~(. (default-agent this %.n) bowl)
++  on-init
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  `this
++  on-save
  ^-  vase

>   !>(state)

Reviewer 2: The previous comment applies here and in most other codeblocks: consider adding `::` lines to separate the arms more clearly.

++  on-load
  |=  old-state=vase
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  =/  old  !<(versioned-state old-state)
  ?-  -.old
    %0  `this(state old)
  ==
++  on-poke
  |=  [=mark =vase]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  |^
  ?>  =(src.bowl our.bowl)
  ?+    mark  (on-poke:def mark vase)
      %todo-action
    =^  cards  state
      (handle-poke !<(action:todo vase))
    [cards this]
  ==
  ++  handle-poke
    |=  =action:todo
    ^-  (quip card _state)
    ?-    -.action
        %add

>       :_  state(tasks (~(put by tasks) now.bowl [name.action %.n]))

Reviewer 2: Note that this will go wrong if the app gets multiple `%add` pokes within the same event. Might be a fun exercise for the reading to find & resolve.

Author: how can it get more than one in one event?

Reviewer 2: Some local agent might send multiple `%poke`s to this app, which then get processed immediately, within the same event, because these all flow from the one external event that triggered the local agent to send the `%poke`s. As such the `now.bowl` will be the same for both those `+on-poke` invocations.

Reviewer: Oh! That is something I was puzzling over last week. I was cribbing off of this example for my own app and couldn't get more than one `%poke` to go through at once ended up wasting a couple hours and then not understanding how I fixed it.

Author: lol interesting I didn't consider this case. I might add an explanation of exactly when the bowl gets repopulated when that's introduced. I'm unsure about having them fix this as an exercise - I might just add a small recursion that checks for existence and adds 1ms to the time if it's already in the map, then tries again. I can then explain why I did that in the code walkthrough, harkening back to the lesson when the bowl was introduced

  |%
  ++  noun  update
  --
++  grad  %noun
--
```

This is a very simple mark file for the `update` type.

### Publisher

#### `/app/todo.hoon`

```hoon
/-  todo
/+  default-agent, dbug
|%
+$  versioned-state
  $%  state-0
  ==
+$  state-0  [%0 =friends:todo =tasks:todo]
+$  card  card:agent:gall
--
%-  agent:dbug
=|  state-0
=*  state  -
^-  agent:gall
|_  =bowl:gall
+*  this  .
    def   ~(. (default-agent this %.n) bowl)
::
++  on-init
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  `this
::
++  on-save
  ^-  vase
  !>(state)
::
++  on-load
  |=  old-state=vase
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  =/  old  !<(versioned-state old-state)
  ?-  -.old
    %0  `this(state old)
  ==
::
++  on-poke
  |=  [=mark =vase]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  |^
  ?>  =(src.bowl our.bowl)
  ?+    mark  (on-poke:def mark vase)
      %todo-action
    =^  cards  state
      (handle-poke !<(action:todo vase))
    [cards this]
  ==
  ++  handle-poke
    |=  =action:todo
    ^-  (quip card _state)
    ?-    -.action
        %add
      :_  state(tasks (~(put by tasks) now.bowl [name.action %.n]))
      :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`[%add now.bowl name.action])
          ==
      ==
    ::

>          %del

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        %del
```

      :_  state(tasks (~(del by tasks) id.action))
      :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`action)
          ==
      ==
    ::

>         %toggle
>       :_  %=  state
>             tasks  %+  ~(jab by tasks)
>                      id.action
>                    |=(=task:todo task(done !done.task))
>           ==
>       :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
>               !>(`update:todo`action)
>           ==
>       ==
>     ::
>         %rename
>       :_  %=  state
>             tasks  %+  ~(jab by tasks)
>                      id.action
>                    |=(=task:todo task(name name.action))
>           ==
>       :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
>               !>(`update:todo`action)
>           ==
>       ==

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        %toggle
      :-  :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`action)
          ==  ==
      %=  state
        tasks  %+  ~(jab by tasks)
                 id.action
               |=(=task:todo task(done !done.task))
      ==
    ::
        %rename
      :-  :~  :*  %give  %fact  ~[/updates]  %todo-update
              !>(`update:todo`action)
          ==  ==
      %=  state
        tasks  %+  ~(jab by tasks)
                 id.action
               |=(=task:todo task(name name.action))
      ==
```
I know I already rewrote this part once to get the lines under 80 characters, but now I realized this makes the state the heavier branch, so it ought to be on the bottom.
